# Ning-Hong-s-essay-questions
Ning Hong's answers to essay questions  

1. Initially, I thought programming was an uninteresting, “men only” field. However, after taking a computer science class to complete a UW graduation requirement, I realized that programming is actually quite fun and rewarding, and that women can be just as good at programming as men. Now, I want to do everything I can to contribute to the female programmer population. I've discovered that when programming, sometimes there will be bugs, even when you are certain your code is flawless. However, the torment of those elusive bugs makes their discovery - and the lesson that comes from   that discovery - that much more rewarding. In addition, seeing my programs run smoothly is immensely satisfying. I have   programmed many small java-related projects in my computer science classes, and I would love the opportunity to learn   other types of programming. Unfortunately, I realized my passion for programming only this past winter, when I’ve   already completed many of my biochemistry degree requirements. It is too late for me to switch to a computer science   degree at the UW, but  Ada is a chance for me to pursue something I truly love to do. Once given the chance, I will   strive to achieve my maximum potential in programming.      
  
2. In the next two years, I would like to get a job as a programmer in a big company. Given my biochemistry background, I am most interested in programming for pharmaceutical companies or research facilities. I would like to constantly improve myself both as a programmer and as a person during the next five years and maybe start my own company. Nobody can foresee the future, but I know one thing for sure, which is no matter what I do, I will always work hard and do my best.   


3. My family has always had high hopes and expectations for me. My father always wanted me to become a doctor, and   
that’s what I thought I was supposed to do. I never explored my career options even though being a doctor didn’t  
interest me that much, and I wanted to try other things. Only after I took a programming class on a whim did I realize how much I’ve been missing out on. Coming from a traditional Asian family, I’ve always done things my parents wanted me to do, but that is not what I want for my life. If I could start over as a freshman in college, I would explore my options and do the things I love instead of what is expected of me. When I was rejected from the computer science and engineering program at the UW because I had too many credits, I deeply regretted the choice I made upon arriving at college. It takes courage, determination, and commitment to pursue one’s dream, and that’s what I am ready to do to become a programmer. 

4. You might notice that I only had one year of high school education, during which I was not able to attend all of my classes due to a health problem back then. When I came to the US at age 15, I started taking college classes. However, due to my lack of a complete high school education, I had to teach myself high school math and physics in order to catch up with the college curriculum. I watched many free online lectures and Khan Academy videos, and I solved many practice problems. I fully used all the resources I could access: the Internet, textbooks, and the help of my friends. Being able to learn science subjects myself for hours every day required persistence and large amount of commitment. In the end, I was able to teach myself higher-level geometry, pre-calculus, and mechanics. My college math and physics GPA is a 3.8, which I am very proud of. I was originally from North Korea, so I also had to teach myself Chinese and English when I went to China because I didn't have any money to go to school at first. 
